# stl version v3.9.0.0
Date: 2024.12.13

## Issues in Milestone

---

- #54 #autosub Getting speaker fullname from external api
- #55 #autosub Display FullName if the received transcription is the first transcription of the speaker otherwise ShortName
- #56 #autosub The first line of each subtitle should start with the speaker name
- #60 #autosub Migrate project to .Net9.0

## Features

---

### #autosub Getting speaker fullname from external api

Added `speaker_api` section in the `SpeechmaticsSettings.json`

```json
{
  "speaker_api": {
    "uri": "http://192.168.101.99:8082/jobs/GetSpeaker",
    "model": "test",
    "stream_name": "test"
  }
}
```

To deactivate requests to the API, simply specify an empty uri string.

```json
{
  "speaker_api": {
    "uri": "",
    "model": "test",
    "stream_name": "test"
  }
}
```

Upon receiving the transcription, the process of audio stream analysis and voice recognition by a third-party API is launched. On the third-party API, pre-prepared models allow us to match the voice with the speaker's name.

We need to send to the third-party API

1. Model - Trained model name
2. StreamName - Name of the audio stream for analysis
3. TcIn - Start time of analysis in UNIX seconds time
4. TcOut - End time of analysis in UNIX seconds time

In response, we receive the name of the speaker, such as `Jean Dupont`, and match it with the speaker's ID.

We get the following:

- Speaker: `S1`
- Fullname: `Jean Dupont`
- Shortname: `J. Dupont`

Next, if there is a received name for speaker `S1`, we substitute the full name for the first mention and ShortName for subsequent mentions.

If a name for speaker `S1` is received, no repeat requests are sent.


### #autosub Display FullName if the received transcription is the first transcription of the speaker otherwise ShortName


### #autosub The first line of each subtitle should start with the speaker name

Added `use_speaker_in_subtitle` `(boolean)` parameter in the `ApplicationSettings.json` settings file to activate speaker name in subtitle.

```json
{
  "subtitle_use_speaker": true
}
```

Added parameter `subtitle_use_speaker` responsible for embedding the speaker's name at the beginning of the subtitle.

If `"subtitle_use_speaker": true` Then each subtitle starts with the speaker's name if recognized. `Speechmatics` allows us to recognize different speakers. Each speaker is assigned an id - `S1`, `S2`, `S3`, etc.

For each speaker, we try to recognize their name using another API and match it with the id from `Speechmatics`.

- If **speaker** occurs for the first time - its full name is used.
- If **speaker** has already occurred before - its short name is used.
- If **speaker** does not have its full and short name set - its id is used: `S1:`.

**Before:**

```
----------------------------------------

[15] So I want to start by offering you
[17] a. And all it requires of you

----------------------------------------

[15] a. And all it requires of you
[17] is this two minutes.

----------------------------------------

[15] is this two minutes.
[17] But before I give it

----------------------------------------
```

**After**

- Speaker: `S1`
- Fullname: `Jean Dupont`
- Shortname: `J. Dupont`

- Speaker: `S2`
- Fullname: `Jean Durand`
- Shortname: `J. Durand`

```
----------------------------------------

[15] Jean Dupont: So I want to start
[17] by offering you a. And

----------------------------------------

[15] J. Dupont: by offering you a. And
[17] all it requires of you is this

----------------------------------------

[15] J. Dupont: all it requires of you
[17] Jean Durand: is this two minutes.

----------------------------------------

[15] J. Durand: is this two minutes.
[17] But before I give it

----------------------------------------
```


### #autosub Migrate project to .Net9.0

Project `AutoSub` was migrated to the latest dotnet framework .net 9.0.

For the service to work, you should update dotnet from the official website.

**ASP.NET Core Runtime 9.0.0**

```
https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/9.0
```



