### Change sequence of convert transcription to subtitle

**Subtitle Formation Process Based on Transcriptions:**

1. **Receiving the Transcription:**  
   After receiving the transcription from `Speechmatics`, individual words are stored in the `Words buffer`.

2. **Duplicate Filtering:**  
   Before recording in the `Words buffer`, duplicate words from the transcription are removed.

3. **Subtitle Formation:**  
   Words are sequentially extracted from the `Words buffer` and added to the `Subtitles buffer`.

   - **Subtitles buffer** consists of two components:
     - **Current subtitle:** where words from the `Words buffer` are added.
     - **Collection of formed subtitles:** where the **current subtitle** is moved after it is fully formed.

4. **Transfer to the Collection:**  
   Once the **current subtitle** is filled, it is transferred to the **Collection of formed subtitles**.

5. **Subtitle Extraction:**  
   The `Extract` method is called every `subtitles_timeout_ms` milliseconds to extract one subtitle from the **Collection of formed subtitles**.

   - If the **Collection of formed subtitles** is empty, but the **current subtitle** (partially formed) contains words, a waiting process for new words begins.
   - If no new words are received during `subtitle_extract_attempts` calls to the `Extract` method, the **current subtitle** is forcibly moved to the **Collection of formed subtitles**.

6. **Completion of Subtitle Formation:**  
   After the **current subtitle** is fully formed or the attempts to wait for new words have ended, the `Build subtitle` method is called. This method records the **current subtitle** in the **Collection of formed subtitles** and, depending on the `subtitle_gen_line_mode` parameter, either clears the **current subtitle** or shifts its lines up by one position, freeing the last line for new words.

7. **Subtitle Conversion and Saving:**  
   After the subtitle is extracted by the `Extract` method, depending on the `subtitle_write_mode` setting, the subtitle can:
   - Be converted to Newfor format and sent via TCP/UDP.
   - Be converted to SRT format and saved to a file.
   - Be saved to a file, overwriting the previous subtitle.

`ApplicationSettings.json` settings:

```json
{
  "grpc_service_ip": "127.0.0.1",
  "grpc_service_port": 9740,
  "subtitles_timeout_ms": 2000,
  "subtitle_lines": "8,14",
  "subtitle_start_mode": 1,
  "subtitle_write_mode": [0],
  "subtitle_srt_path": "./tmp/subtitle.srt",
  "subtitle_latest_path": "./tmp/latest.sub",
  "subtitle_gen_line_mode": 0,
  "subtitle_extract_attempts": 0
}
```

**subtitle_start_mode** - defines the application operating mode.
0 - waits for the command to start transcription from DataRuter, which connects to the AutoSob service via jRPS
1 - Transcription starts automatically after the service starts. In this case, the transcription language is taken from a file `SpeechmaticsSettings.json` `speechmatics.language`

**subtitle_write_mode** - Choose what to do with the received transcriptions. It should be sequence of numbers separated by commas.
0: Send via TCP or UDP as Newfor
1: Write to file as SRT
2: Write to file as plain text the latest subtitle

**subtitle_srt_path** - if subtitle_write_mode is 1, this is the path to the SRT file

**subtitle_gen_line_mode** - When all lines for subtitle is full - for the next subtitle
0 - Remove first line. This will move all lines up one position
1 - Remove all lines. We wait until all the lines are filled in

**subtitle_extract_attempts** - specifies the number of iterations that will wait for the Transcription
to arrive before giving the incompletely formed subtitle. One iteration is specified milliseconds in `subtitles_timeout_ms`.
